Hey it's Andre here.
I just wanted to spend a quick moment looking at what create react app gives us now the first thing
we saw in the previous video is that we have this package that Jason File and we also saw that we had
these commands available to us.
Now if I open up the terminal here in my visual studio code make sure that we're inside of our project.
In my case I will C.D. into the Test folder and for some of you maybe when you ran yarn start.
Nothing happened.
And that's because you may not have a yarn installed on your computer.
Instead you might have NPM.
So if you do NPM start this should now work now for those that don't know NPM is a package manager.
It's essentially a way for us to automate the process of installing upgrading configuring or removing
any libraries that we want.
For example installing react which create react app did automatically for us.
Now there's also this other package manager called ja.
You can use whichever one you want.
The only difference is the commands that you put into your terminal.
So it could be NPM start or yarn start yarn was actually created by Facebook at a time where NPM had
a few issues.
So this is just up to you.
Whichever one you choose.
Now one thing you notice here is that I've successfully start my app but it didn't show up on my browser.
Sometimes that could happen.
So all you have to do in that case is just go to a local host three thousand and you'll see that your
app is now here.
Everything is working now the other thing I want to talk about is this NPM run built fight close this
application.
Again I can use either NPM or.
But if I do NPM run build I want you to notice what's going to happen over here.
As you said we have the source folder where we have all our files and you can think of this as our workspace.
This is our workbench where we're going to work on our application.
But when we actually put it to the outside world when we actually deploy our application if we give
all these files to the browser the browser is going to be like I have no idea where you're trying to
do.
I have no idea what this syntax is.
Yeah I'm going to pass.
I have no idea and it's going to error out instead by running NPM run built.
I want you to notice what's going to happen to the public folder
you see here that says it's creating an optimized production built one of the beauty things of create
react app is that it optimizes the code for you.
Let me show you what I mean you see here that we now have a build folder if I click on this build folder
you see that I have all my files in here that well some of them I've seen before like the fab icon.
Index.
Dot e-mail file.
But you see this has been Minnifield so it's going to take less data that we can send from our server.
If we go to the static we see that we have our CSF files which again have been modified.
We have our JavaScript files which over here looks like we have a bunch of them.
All of them magnified it kind of looks like gibberish but inside here we have all the code that we wrote
in our source folder and it went through this step to create optimized built files for us.
So what we want to do now is take this built folder and put it on a server.
Now we're going to go over deployment later on in the course but I want to go back to the power of create
reactor.
You see a uses Westpac and Babel something we'll talk about later on in the course now.
Babel and Westpac allow us to take our source folder which I mean we had a lot of JavaScript files and
we're gonna write a lot more throughout the course.
What they're going to do is they're going to take these files and Babel is going to do this thing first
table is going to say hey all these JavaScript files with that weird react syntax that we're not really
too sure what's what's going on.
Well I'm going to take all those files for you and remember how traditionally we had all these browsers
that well implemented the browser differently Babel is going to make sure that our JavaScript files
are going to work on all these browsers no matter what version no matter how old they are how new they
are they're going to make sure for us that hey every single one of these JavaScript files is going to
be understood.
So it's kind of like J query did back in the day when we had this idea of making sure that the browsers
understand us awesome but what about wetback.
Well what pack is a module bundler it's letting us write a modular code.
So what does that mean this built folder.
You'll see that we have a lot of JavaScript files in our source folder but the build folder actually
has well just a few JavaScript files.
It has the main JavaScript file see that we only have actually three JavaScript files and that's because
wetback is going to take all our javascript remember all these imports that we're doing and create well
bundle everything up together and optimize it for production.
Now you don't need to understand this whole process because the beauty is that react has a dedicated
team of developers really really smart developers that implements this behind the scenes for you.
That's the power of a tool like create react app.
It's a CLIA or command line interface.
Other frameworks like angular or view have the same thing a way for us to start a project really really
fast.
Have all this configuration done for us optimized for us so that we can build really nice performance
applications.
So remember this built folder is what we'll use to actually deploy our application this source folder
is our playground our workplace.
Now let's go back to Pakistan Jason.
When we look at Pakistan Jason the reason we have this is that it allows us to have this package manager
so that remember how we said react is all about this component architecture and we can use other people's
code and other components.
Well we can use this packaged to Jason to install other perhaps react components.
So if we go to something like material UI you'll see that I can install component library material UI
just by running npm install and it's going to get added to our packaged Jason File.
We're going to be exploring create react app and other parts of this application throughout the course.
But the last thing I want to touch on is what react is actually doing underneath the hood.
If we go to the public folder and go to index dot HMO we have all this pre setup code for us.
But the key thing is that when we look at the body tag the only thing we have is this div I.D. of route.
Now this is where we're going to inject our ReACT application.
But at the end of the day all we're doing is just replacing whatever is here with a react application.
But that doesn't mean that I can't keep just coding along and building something else like a hello a
simple tag if I save this and run NPM start if I go back to my app over here and I scroll down you'll
see that look at that I've added Hello.
So my app is part react part HDMI very very cool so react is something that we can inject even into
parts of our application.
If I right click here and do inspect and go to the elements tab you'll see that this application is
well Dave ideal route.
And then we have this app inside of here that is just to HMO tags.
If I open up my react developer tools once again you'll see that the developer tools actually just notices
are react app and it has this app component that it's created for us.
But at the end of the day it's the same thing as the Asian mall we see here finally if we go to app
dog yes we'll notice that we are importing react and if we go to index dodges we have something called
react Don now moving forward I want you to think of these two libraries are just doing these things.
One is that this react library allows us to write this HCM El like syntax inside a javascript file and
it understands it because of this react library.
The second thing is that this react Dom is that little robot from our previous section.
Remember this little guy that actually interacts with the dump that's the react arm.
That's the little robot that can be replaced with well different robots maybe the one that interacts
with a mobile phone or a desktop.
This is the react package.
It allows us to write Jeff Sachs and Bill components and build that virtual dorm and the react Dom is
this little robot that interacts actually interact with the DOM.
So if we go to the code you see that react on render allows us to grab an element from HMO and insert
app into it.
That's all it's doing.
All right that's enough for now.
Let's keep going in the next video.